Changes in DQI - Key indicators and quality score (#815)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/what-is/understand-data-quality.md

title: Understand **data quality**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: improve-data-quality, manage-data-quality, access-rights-on-data-quality
---

# About data quality insights
What is this **red, orange or green A, B, C, D, E displayed on my product edit form**?

> ![Image quality score](../img/quality-score.png)

Reviewer: L'image ne s'affiche pas pour moi

> **This is the quality score calculated thanks to Akeneo's data quality insights feature!**

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion
```suggestion
**This is the quality score calculated thanks to the data quality insights feature!**
```

Because rich, coherent and consistent product data is important in order to deliver great product experiences, we introduced the concept of "data quality" in our PIM.  
This new capability helps you measure your data quality along two axes: **enrichment** and **consistency**.  

> Each of these two axes take into account several criteria to come up with an overall **quality score** for each product of your catalog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each of these two axes takes into account several criteria to generate an overall **quality score** for each product of your catalog.
```

Reviewer 3: not sure about 'overall' -> I would say a specific (because it's specific to each product individually)

## How is the quality score calculated?
The **enrichment axis** takes into account the percentage of attributes with values in your product edit form (whether the attributes are required for completeness or not).

> We now know that an image is a must-have for a compelling product description. Data quality insights ensures that all your products have at least one image for your customers to see.

Reviewer 2: Maybe you could mention that this criteria is also part of what we call the enrichment axis.

Author: done, thanks

The **consistency axis** is a mix of the following criteria:

> - Spell check: localizable text and text areas, attribute labels and attribute options are checked for spelling mistakes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Spell-check: localizable text and text areas, attribute labels and attribute options are checked for spelling mistakes.
```

> - Uppercases formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for upper cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Uppercase formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for uppercases.
```

> - Lowercases formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for lower cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Lowercase formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for lowercases.
```

If you use a single locale, then spell check is usable on text and text area attributes.
:::

## What does the quality score mean?

> The **quality score** calculates the achievement

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **quality score** calculates the achievement.
```

> - **A** stands for **"Excellent": 90 to 100%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. You may still have little improvements to make to reach perfection but you have done a tremendous job already.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **A** means **"Excellent": 90 to 100%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. You may still have little improvements to do before you reach perfection but you have done a tremendous job already.
```

> - **B** means **"Good": 80 to 89%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. This already is a good achievement, you can definitely go to the next level by following the PIM's recommendations and reach a first-class catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
- **B** means **"Good": 80 to 89%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. This already is a good achievement, you can definitely go to the next level by following the PIM's recommendations and craft a first-class catalog.
```

> - **B** stands for **"Good": 80 to 89%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. This already is a good achievement, you can definitely go to the next level by following the PIM's recommendations and reach a first-class catalog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **B** means **"Good": 80 to 89%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. This already is a good achievement, you can definitely go to the next level by following the PIM's recommendations and craft a first-class catalog.
```

> - **C** means **"Average": 70 to 79%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Follow the PIM's recommendations whether in the dashboard or in the data quality insights panel of the product edit form to improve your data quality.

Author: ```suggestion
- **C** means **"Average": 70 to 79%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Follow our recommendations whether in the dashboard or in the data quality insights panel of the product edit form to improve your data quality.
```

> - **C** stands for **"Average": 70 to 79%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Follow the PIM's recommendations whether in the dashboard or in the data quality insights panel of the product edit form to improve your data quality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **C** means **"Average": 70 to 79%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Follow the PIM's recommendations whether in the dashboard or in the data quality insights panel of the product edit form to improve your data quality.
```

> - **D** means **"Below average": 60 to 69%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Don't give up, we are here to help: check the **key indicators** to see where you should focus your efforts to begin with.

Author: ```suggestion
- **D** means **"Below average": 60 to 69%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Don't give up, we are here to help: check the **key indicators** to see where you should focus your efforts.
```

> - **D** stands for **"Below average": 60 to 69%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Don't give up, we are here to help: check the **key indicators** to see where you should focus your efforts to begin with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **D** means **"Below average": 60 to 69%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. Don't give up, we are here to help: check the **key indicators** to see where you should focus your efforts.
```

> - **E** stands for **"To improve": 0 to 59%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. You may be at the beginning of a project with a lot of enrichment to do or have lots of new products to enrich, or you may have unrelevant attribute groups activated such as ERP data downgrading your quality score.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **E** means **"To improve": 0 to 59%** of the data quality criteria are fulfilled. You may be at the beginning of a project with a lot of enrichment to do or have lots of new products to enrich. Another explanation might be irrelevant attribute groups activated, such as ERP data, which might downgrade your quality score.
```

::: tips

> By disabling specific attribute groups in Akeneo settings, you can focus your insights and progress on the most relevant product data for your end-customer needs. Therefore, you will get insights on what’s truly important to improve your Product Experience.

Reviewer: By disabling specific attribute groups in `Settings` / `Attribute groups`, you can focus your insights and progress on the most relevant product data for your end-customer needs. Therefore, you will get insights on what’s truly important to improve your Product Experience.

> By disabling specific attribute groups in Akeneo settings, you can focus your insights and progress on the most relevant product data for your end-customer needs. Therefore, you will get insights on what’s truly important to improve your Product Experience.

Reviewer 2: It's better to link to the article explaining how to disable attribute groups, instead of explaining here how to do.
```suggestion
By [disabling specific attribute group](manage-data-quality.html#data-quality-insights-activation-and-deactivation), you can focus your insights and progress on the most relevant product data for your end-customer needs. Therefore, you will get insights on what’s truly important to improve your product experience.
```

> By disabling specific attribute groups in Akeneo settings, you can focus your insights and progress on the most relevant product data for your end-customer needs. Therefore, you will get insights on what’s truly important to improve your Product Experience.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I understand 'you can focus your insights'. You can focus your efforts?

Author: thanks

:::

# Where to see the quality score?
The quality score is displayed as badges on various PIM screens.

## On your data quality insights dashboard
Your **data quality insights dashboard** offers multiple ways of measuring your catalog's data quality. You can choose to view data quality on the whole catalog, on a family, or on a category.

![Image data quality dashboard](../img/data-quality-dashboard.png)

## In your product grid
Your **product grid** displays the quality score for each product.

![Image product grid](../img/data-quality-grid.png)

## On your product edit form
Your **product edit form** displays the quality score for each product.

![Image product edit form](../img/data-quality-pef.png)

::: info
If all the attribute groups of your family have been deactivated, the quality score will not be calculated for your product.
:::

## In your data quality insights panel (product edit form)
Clicking on `data quality insights` in the product edit form takes you to a dedicated panel where you'll find recommendations to understand your quality score and improve it if needed.

> ![Image data quality panel](../img/data-quality-panel.png)

Reviewer: Là aussi c'est un ancien screenshot qui ne contient pas les nouveaux badges

Author: Merci Félix, les screenshots ne sont pas définitifs

- "N/A": if the recommendation is "N/A" (Not Applicable) it means that the criteria is not relevant for the given product. For example, "N/A" will be displayed for spell-check if you don't have any localizable text or text area attributes.
- "In progress": the criteria is being checked.

# How often is the quality score refreshed?
The grades are updated whenever there is a change in the product data:
- after an import,
- after an attribute or option is saved,
- after a product is saved.

Depending on the amount of data, refreshing the quality score can take up from a few minutes to several hours in order to calculate all the impacts of a modification in the following cases:
- after an import: all products
- after an attribute or option is saved: the impact is calculated on all the products holding the attribute or option

> - after a product model is saved: the impact is calculated on all the product variants belonging to the model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- after a product model is saved: the impact is calculated on all the product variants belonging to the model.
- after an attribute group quality activation/deactivation, all product belonging to a family where attributes are on the attribute group you've activated/deactived will be evaluated (you know what I mean, update this sentence in good english ;))
```

- "N/A": if the recommendation is "N/A" (Not Applicable) it means that the criteria is not relevant for the given product. For example, "N/A" will be displayed for spell-check if you don't have any localizable text or text area attributes.
- "In progress": the criteria is being checked.

# How often is the quality score refreshed?
The grades are updated whenever there is a change in the product data:
- after an import,
- after an attribute or option is saved,
- after a product is saved.

> Depending on the amount of data, refreshing the quality score can take up from a few minutes to several hours in order to calculate all the impacts of a modification in the following cases:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the amount of data, refreshing the quality score can take anything from a few minutes to several hours in order to calculate all the impacts of a modification in the following cases:
```

> - after an import: all products

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- after an import: all products,
```

> - after an import: all products

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- after an import: all products are assessed. 
```

> - after an attribute or option is saved: the impact is calculated on all the products holding the attribute or option

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- after an attribute or option is saved: the impact is calculated on all the products holding the attribute or option,
```

- after a product model is saved: the impact is calculated on all the product variants belonging to the model,

> - after an attribute group activation or deactivation: the impact is calculated on all products belonging to families with the updated attribute group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- after an attribute group activation or deactivation: the impact is calculated on all the products belonging to families with the updated attribute group.
```
